[ominous music plays]
[narrator] Tax-free liquor's got
the backwoods booming.
- [boom]
- [crackling]
- Taking all my money.
- You're getting all my liquor.
[Josh] So. you're needing
some liquor. are you?
[buyer] Yeah. at least
100 gallons.
Drawing in the wise.
What are you trying to say?
Are you trying to say
you're going illegal?
If I just sit and do nothing.
I'm gonna lose everything.
And the reckless.
You called her
on an open line.
To gamble their freedom
on the lure of easy money.
[Tim] That joker is
following us. Tickle.
Because when you let the scent
of this much cash drift through
these hollers...
Somebody out there
selling liquor at damn
rock-bottom prices.
The government's bound
to come sniffing.
Ah. [bleep].
Along with every carpetbagger
and counterfeiter
chasing a quick score.
[man] Can I help you?
- [buyer] You made
this liquor. right?
- [man] Yes. sir.
Fellers like this here.
you got to deal with them
pretty rough.
Now. new faces arises
to stir the proverbial pot.
We don't drink no moonshine.
That stuff is from the devil.
Hell-bent on fanning
the flames of tension
older than
the hills themselves.
- What the hell is this?
- [Tim] Bullet holes.
That's a Bible verse.
Out here. the real fight is
always more than money.
[Tickle] Look not thou upon
the wine when it is red.
At the last it biteth like
a serpent and stingeth
like an adder.
It's a battle for the spirit
of the backwoods.
[Mark] Corn liquor. what Digger
and myself cut our teeth on.
- [Henry] Hot damn
- [Tim] Made in the woods.
You can't beat that.
[howling]
And a way of life built on
heritage and tradition.
Right now. we shouldn't be
taking no chances.
I'm gonna grab what we can
right quick and get
the hell out of here.
[Tim] I'm thinking. is someone
gonna arrest us?
Somebody going to shoot us?
Or what's going to happen?
[man] Henry. Henry. help.
God dang it.
The cops will be here
in a minute.
- [pop]
- [Tickle] Oh. oh [bleep].
Damn. all mighty.
Come on.
Everything's gone.
[suspenseful music plays]
[man] This is how
we make the moonshine.
- What are you doing. Tim?
- [Tim] Taping. man.
I'm glad y'all showed up.
[Henry] What'd you call us
down here to do a tape job?
No.
I got something come up.
and I'm gonna need some help.
I need. like.
1.000 gallons made.
That's what I need.
That's the deal.
I ran into this gentleman.
He's actually from Canada.
We started talking about
moonshine and liquor and stuff.
Next thing I know. I've got
$20.000 in my hand.
Get half up front.
the other half at
the end of the day.
I just need to get
the stuff made.
What are you trying to say?
Are you trying to say
you're going illegal?
In Culpeper County. Virginia.
as the commercial
whiskey business suffers under
tariffs and decreasing demand.
former outlaw turned legal
distiller Tim Smith grapples
with an existential quandary.
The cash in the moonshine
market suddenly seems
a lot greener
on the outlaw side.
The Canadians. they want
to buy American whiskey
and moonshine. but the tariffs.
the price is. like. double.
So. if we can introduce this on
a black market where we don't
have any tariffs charges on it.
I can make some money.
and my buyer. he can. too.
- [Tickle] You got a lot to lose.
[Henry] You know. you've been
rocking and rolling here
for ten years or more. legally.
You sure you want to
do this thing. Tim?
Well. that's the thing.
The legal business is not
so good right now.
That's right.
You've got to pay the federal
government off for you
to just make alcohol.
and then you've got to pay every
state to sell the alcohol.
and then you've got to give
the distributor their part.
and then the retailer gets
their part. and by the time
you get done with that.
you won't get no money.
Twelve years ago. Tim and his
best friend Tickle ran one of
the biggest illegal moonshine
operations in Virginia.
I'd say. the average moonshiner
can make about
$30.000 in three months.
Oh. yeah.
We need to start
loading this up.
But facing the prospect of
life in jail. Tim made
a reluctant decision to invest
in a licensed distillery.
That way I can make moonshine.
I can keep on the heritage.
and make money without
worrying about getting arrested.
Now. with no way to earn
a living in the legal market.
all bets are off.
I just got an opportunity
to make some money.
and the only way to do it is
illegal. because you can't
make it legal.
Well. you know.
you got to be careful.
You know. Mark almost
got busted last year.
Yeah. I know. but I ain't
Mark. and I ain't Digger
neither. and I got you two guys
that I know you got my back.
I'm just thrilled to be back
out in the woods with Tim.
Well. you're with
the right two guys here.
That's right.
Look. let's start throwing
what you got in the truck.
This journey. you know.
over a decade now of being
legal. which I've always
wanted to do.
I wanted to bring
my dad's recipe to light.
I did that.
I put it on the shelf.
But. you know. you get $30
for that little bottle.
and you profit 65 cents.
You lead the way. and me
and Henry will follow you.
all right?
[Tim] Just follow me.
To make profit. you got to
get cash money.
And cash money is no taxes.
No taxes mean
you're breaking the law.
- [Tickle] All right.
- What do you think. Henry?
This is way back in here.
I mean. that's security there.
I'm going back to some old
territories growing up as a kid.
You know. it still has
not been developed.
It is out there.
That's some fresh water
coming in right up there.
It comes down through here.
It brings back memories.
but it also. you know.
it raises a hair up
on your back.
You start thinking about.
is somebody watching you?
Is it somebody out there
in those woods. you know.
just waiting for you
when you unload?
I got about four weeks.
Thousand gallons.
Got to have a whole lot
more than that.
Well. I mean. we got to
put more stills in.
And then we'll be running.
setting up. running.
setting up. running. mashing.
- Do it like we did back
in the old days.
- [Tim] Four weeks.
we'll be done.
- Let's do it.
- Let's get them unloaded.
- [Tickle] Yeah. let's get
them unloaded.
Sometimes it comes a time
in your life you have to
make a decision.
- [Henry] Come on down with us.
- [Tim] I got it.
[Tim] Because if I just sit here
and do nothing. I'm gonna
lose everything.
Right now. we need some money.
I'm not gonna let
this legacy go down.
I just hope I don't get caught.
You with the right two.
Don't worry.
That's why we're here.
- [Henry] That's why we're here.
- [Tim] Y'all ready?
Let's roll on.
[music plays]
[Digger] We've pushed
our luck way further than
we ever should have.
- [Mark] I know we have.
but that still
don't kill the feeling of
wanting to do what we've done
every spring for so many years.
Deep in the hills of
Cocke County. Tennessee.
the first warm days of spring
lure lifelong moonshiners Mark
and Digger back to the woods.
[Mark] We achieved our goal.
We had all these teams of
making liquor. but that could
have been our mistake.
Put your hands up
on the car there.
After their last season
ended in handcuffs.
the legendary outlaws face
a harsh reality.
There's little doubt local law
enforcement is already
tracking their every move.
You know. we made
the really hard decision to shut
our whole operation down.
We packed up all the stills.
the equipment that
we rounded up.
and we put it in storage.
Gonna be real mixed emotions
seeing all these stills.
ain't it?
[Digger] Yeah. do we keep
pushing it or do we let up?
[Mark] I don't know.
I'm not sure which direction's
the wrong one.
We're gonna go
look at these stills.
We're gonna decide
what we're gonna do.
I think it needs
further discussion as to
where we're gonna go into
making liquor this year.
Have mercy.
[Mark] Well. there they are.
just the way we left them.
We look at these stills kind of
like a hunting hound dog.
A hound dog that ain't
permitted to hunt is in misery.
And I can't help but think that
these stills somehow or another
know they're supposed to
be making liquor.
I mean. it just ain't right to
have all these nice stills
sitting here making no liquor.
- Yeah.
Would we be tempting fate
if we keep pushing our luck?
It's a hard decision to make.
but I'm wanting to light one of
them up so bad I can't stand
it. and I know Puss is. too.
Let me tell you what.
let me make a suggestion.
One of our dearest and oldest
friends in the liquor business
has never been caught.
never been handcuffed.
- I'm talking about JB Rader.
- Yep.
What do you say
we go talk to JB
about it?
- All right. I'll go for that.
If there is such a thing
as a living legend.
JB is it
in the moonshine business.
Popcorn. he got caught.
JB never did.
If I want marital advice.
I don't ask somebody that's
been divorced seven times.
[Mark] Let's see if we can
run JB down. Puss.
[Digger] Let's go see Rader.
[music plays]
We were supposed to be
down deep.
Got to get down into
the bedrock. which we really
ain't there yet.
Four counties southeast.
fifth-generation moonshiner
Josh Owens also heeds
spring's call of the woods.
After a long recovery
from a near-fatal
motorcycle accident.
Josh is finally ready
to restart his own
moonshine operation.
But until his new partner
arrives to help set up
the copper stills. he's got
another precious metal
on his mind.
I've heard all my life about
my ancestors finding gold in
these mountains and these hills
and these creeks
and these rivers
around here.
and to be able to
make some liquid money and some
solid money at the same time.
I don't think it'd get
any better than that.
[Big Chuk] Freeze.
[Josh] Where you at?
- Scared the [bleep] out of me.
- [chuckling]
It feels dang good to be
back home. back to my roots.
back to my heritage.
A few years ago. I was
in a motorcycle wreck.
Just about took me out of here.
It's been a really
long road to recovery.
But now that I'm feeling
pretty good. it's time to get
my liquor still back up
and running
and start making some money.
- [Big Chuk] What are you doing?
Man. let me
tell you something.
- Uh-huh.
- [Josh] There's a lot
of people before me
made a living off of gold
in these hills.
and I was really hoping
I could find some gold
in these hills my damn self.
I've known Chuk
for a few years now.
A while back. I went down
to Arkansas. helped him
put together a still. get
his whole entire operation
up and running.
Things are coming around
full circle. because now he is
up here helping me.
Well. it looks pretty
as always down here.
Is this not the best
still site ever?
You can't whoop it
with a stick.
We've got good. clean
spring water.
[rustling]
Oh.
[Josh] Did you hear that?
Got to be on your toes
out here.
I guess it was a...
I don't know.
All right. now don't
start that [bleep].
You'll get me shook up
before we even get started.
I've really been on the edge
since Mark and Digger about got
busted by the law last year.
I think all of us moonshiners
are a little more jumpier
than usual.
And that's another reason
I wanted Chuk out here.
I need another set
of eyes and ears.
Anyway. I got a large order
for some cherry rye and really
good lineup on some grains.
On my grandpa's side of
the family. we're famous for
cherry whiskey.
Believe it or not.
I haven't made it
in years. but now that
I'm back home. there is
a huge market waiting for it.
It's gonna put a ton of money
in our pocket.
- You ready to hustle?
- Hell yeah. I am.
- Nice.
- [Big Chuk] I think
we're fixing to
build something
that's real big here.
and I'm excited to be here.
So. hey. we're about to
get right to work.
Ain't no time to waste.
- Oh. Lord.
- [chuckling]
[music plays]
[Mark] You know. JB.
he's got a lot of sense.
He's back here at one of
the very first stillsites that
Popcorn ever had.
- Yeah.
You know. me and Digger.
we're headed to seek advice
from JB.
This was the place where
Popcorn ran liquor back when
he first started out
before he got big. when he was
just learning the trade.
You know. Popcorn. he felt safe
here. and obviously he was for
a long. long time.
I guess that's why JB's here.
This was the pull-off
right here.
it's just "growed" up now.
- [Digger] Yep. here we are.
[Mark] We just need to see him
and get some advice from him.
[Mark] JB ain't never
been caught.
He's never spent
a night in jail.
so he's the one we need to ask.
- [Digger] I would agree.
[Digger] You know. JB' 's made
as much liquor as anybody.
He's never ended up
in handcuffs like us.
That's the guy we need to
go talk to about how to
keep on making liquor.
Well. if we'd been the law.
you'd be in handcuffs
right now.
- [Mark] We coming in
on you. boss.
Hey. Digger.
Hey. Mark.
Boy. that cooling tub
is staying cold.
- Yeah. right.
That water's turning over
fast. ain't it?
- Yeah.
- Well. all right.
Well. JB. me and old Digger.
we're at a crossroads here.
We've been shut down
for six months.
We ain't made a drop of liquor.
And we need some advice.
Yeah. I know
what's the matter.
You got too big
for your damn britches.
Boys made the same mistakes
that Popcorn did.
He said. "What you're doing's
against the law."
I said. "I know it."
I said. "I don't give
a goddamn."
Legendary Appalachian
moonshiner Popcorn Sutton
was a mentor to
Mark and Digger.
But as his fame grew.
so did his belief that
he was untouchable.
He flouted the law.
operating illegal stills
in the open. increasing his
liquor output exponentially.
and selling moonshine to anyone
and everyone until the walls of
justice finally
closed in on him.
[JB] Yeah. Popcorn
just got too big. like yuns.
- Yep.
- [JB] Making the same mistakes.
Yeah. I didn't put it into
contrast because we kind of
thought we was a little bit
slicker than the next man.
[JB] Yeah.
That's what he thought. too.
[Mark] So tell us
what we need to do.
Just tell us right out what
you think our move
needs to be. JB.
There ain't many
backwoods moonshiners left.
We need to keep it going.
Just keep making liquor.
but be smarter.
Back to basics.
Just put you a small pot out.
or one barrel.
and you know
who you can sell to
and you can't.
I think this is
perfect scenario.
You're sitting here with you a
little still. all for yourself.
making what you can sell.
- [JB] Yep.
Ain't getting rich.
but. you know. growed up
not rich. so what the hell do I
need to get rich now for?
[chuckles]
That's why we came
to you. Obi-Wan.
- That's why we came to you.
- I love you. baby.
I love you back.
The Mark and Digger Enterprises
is now shut down.
It's just gonna be
me and Mark.
We're going back to just an
old single pot. and we're making
corn liquor.
That's it. plain and simple.
- Well. he put it in perspective
for us. didn't he?
- [Digger] Yeah.
and it was laying right in
front of us the whole time.
We're just too damn stupid
to look ourselves.
[upbeat music plays]
[Josh] I can't wait for
you to see this.
I'm so excited.
We're going to get
some of the best grains
in North Carolina.
We're about to make some
frickin' Carolina rye cherry.
This is probably one of
the best grain distributors
anywhere in the South.
and I got a friend that
works there.
He's their delivery guy.
So all I got to do is
meet up with him.
We're gonna buy some.
It's the beginning
of the season.
I'm excited because I already
got a tall order. and it's for
cherry rye. and I'm ready to
make some money.
See that white truck
right there?
Whenever he comes out of there
and gets in that truck.
we're gonna follow him
out of here.
He'll be on his delivery
running from this distillery
to that distillery.
Somewhere in the middle there.
we'll grease the wheel.
Some of that grain's gonna
fall right in the back of
this truck.
[Big Chuk] Don't nobody have
a problem with cash money.
[Josh] We're trying to save
money any way we can.
We're gonna get a better deal
by just dealing with my buddy
here off the back of the truck.
There he is right there.
[Big Chuk] Oh. yeah.
he's loading it up. too.
[Josh] Yeah. here he comes
right there.
Is he getting in the truck.
or is he-- what's he doing?
[Big Chuk] Looks like
he's getting in.
Big money truck.
Here he comes.
[Big Chuk] High pursuit.
We got the subject heading
westbound on the rural road.
and we're about to run up
on him. get all the grains.
and go back to the woods.
- Oh. yeah.
[Big Chuk] So you know where
this old boy's heading?
I really don't.
but there's about 100 damn
breweries up here.
but he's got to be stopping
at one of the son-of-a-guns.
You think he's gonna have
enough of what we need on there?
If he's got ten bags of rye.
we're in business.
Yeah.
Looks like he's
pulling up in here.
Looks like that little alley
or something right there.
I'm gonna run up here
and talk to him real quick.
This brewery we're stopping at.
it looks good.
Don't look like there's
a ton of people around.
It looks like just
the right spot.
I'll be right back.
[anticipatory music plays]
- [Josh] What's up. man?
- [driver] What's going on. man?
[Josh] How are you?
That's a good sign.
Is this a good place to
get some grains from you?
- Got cash?
- [Josh] Yeah.
[Josh] I need some rye.
I got 300 on me.
How much you give me for 300?
[driver]
I think we could let seven
bags fall off for 300 bucks.
Let them fall.
I've only got 300 bucks.
but he said he'd give it to me
for 300. so game on.
There's three bills
right there.
- You want me to back over here?
- [driver] Yeah. go on
back and on in.
- [Josh] All right.
- [Big Chuk] Oh. yeah.
He's walking back
with a smile on his face.
The best part about all this
is. is now we gotta hook up on
premium grains for our entire
season that nobody else is
gonna be able to get
their hands on. and that's just
gonna take us to
a whole new level.
That's it.
Next couple weeks.
I'm definitely gonna be coming
back. if that's all right.
- You bring the cash.
- Oh. man. it's on.
Now we need to
get some cherries.
That's worth its weight
in gold. Bro.
[Big Chuk] Make liquor.
make money.
[suspenseful chord strike]
Come on back. big boy.
That's good.
Good.
[Tim] Last night we came in.
we bought some still parts.
and today we're gonna go in
and we're gonna
mash that still in.
I want to get something in
that works. because I got
1.000 gallons I got to have.
and I only got four weeks.
[Henry] Now. tell me where you
want to go with this thing. Tim?
We got to put more
stills in here.
- It's just the first one.
- [Henry] First one?
- First one can go here.
- [Henry] Let's do it.
There's a snake coming
out of there.
Well. you know. it's been
14 years since I've been
in the woods.
I don't know if I made
the right decision or not.
You know. I may even lose
my license. get put in jail.
Forgot how much work it is
out here. ain't it?
[Tim] Going to prison at
anyone's age. that's kind of
scary anyway.
You know. at my age.
I really don't want to be
going to prison.
But this is what I know
how to do.
I know how to make liquor.
I can make money.
I feel like
I'm carrying a casket.
[Henry] I feel like
I'm carrying both of y'all.
Looks pretty good over here.
Yeah. let's get that pump
running. get the water in that
thing. get it swelled up.
[music plays]
[sputtering]
- Now we talking. baby.
- We need the grain first.
We're not using
no special recipe here.
This is just plain.
bootleg moonshine liquor.
Some corn and sugar.
We're just mixing it in.
putting the yeast in it.
and letting it work.
How's it feel. Tim. to be
out here dissolving this sugar?
[Tim] It's nice.
A little bit stressful.
I mean. it's looking good
because we got one still
set up. we're gonna start
bringing more in each day
and mashing in.
[Tickle] Y'all ready to go
grab the next pot?
- Go get some more stuff.
- Four weeks.
I mean. this is plenty
of time if we can get
these stills set up.
A few days later.
we'll come back and set up
a thump and water box.
And get them
old stills moving. too.
Hold it. Tim.
What the hell is this
coming down through here?
[suspenseful music plays]
Uh-oh.
I don't know who that is.
[suspenseful tone plays]
I don't like this at all.
- Tim Smith.
- Oh. Charlie Wright.
[Charlie] What in the world are
you doing down in here?
Well. we're just looking
over some property down here.
You know. I got some land
down here.
A friend of mine's got
some land down here.
- Oh. so you got permission
to be down in here?
- Yeah.
[Charlie] I'd love to see
y'all come to church.
OK.
Well. may have to do that.
[Charlie] Yeah. yeah.
We'll see if we can't
make things right.
What are you doing
with a gun and stuff?
I was trying to do
some turkey hunting.
I'm a redneck preacher. man.
We do hunting and fishing.
OK.
We don't drink
no moonshine. though.
You know. that stuff is
from the devil. man.
You need to. I don't know.
you need to change your life.
Oh. yeah.
I mean. it's just the one
I grew up in. and it's
kind of a heritage.
[Charlie]
Well. you know. I grew up.
and my family was in moonshine.
and when I got old enough
to make a choice for my own.
I quit.
- Yeah.
- OK.
- Sound like a deal?
We'll see what
we can do about it.
I'll be looking to
see y'all this Sunday.
- Good meeting you.
- Y'all be careful out there.
- You be careful. too.
- God dang. man.
- That was good and bad.
Jesus Christ.
It's a story old as time.
The law versus the moonshiners.
But there's more
to this story than what
a lot of people realize.
There are people out here
in this world that just.
in general. frown upon
the making of liquor.
the selling of liquor.
the drinking of alcohol.
and you know what?
They're entitled
to that opinion.
He told you plainly.
you need to be
changing your ways.
Well. I have been
changing my ways.
That's how I got here.
Sat back here and I was quiet.
[Tim] I've been in woods all of
my life. except for the last
decade. and it's
got complicated.
Moonshiners can get attacked
by a special ABC agent.
law enforcement. state police.
all those agencies out there.
but not someone's
gonna confront you.
You know. they're preachers
against alcohol.
I mean. that's all it is to it.
When he puts the word of God on
you. that's some pressure
right there.
That is some pressure.
That's not like.
"I'm gonna arrest you."
That's like. "I'm gonna
make sure your soul
goes to heaven or not."
[ominous tone plays]
[music plays]
[Mark] I ain't seen
you guys in a while.
It's been a spell.
You know. the past few days
have been pretty tough on us.
laying off our entire staff.
everyone that worked for us.
with the exception of
Amanda and Kelly.
Basically. we ain't made.
none of us
made no liquor
in six months.
I mean. there ain't no way
of sugarcoating it.
We're under the gun.
Y'all are. too.
- We're a liability to y'all.
- I've said that for years.
Well. it just got real now.
Last couple of years.
we've been running
a big moonshine organization.
We had teams working for us.
a lot of teams making
a lot of liquor.
I'm feeling real conflicted
about cutting ties with Amanda
and Kelly. but it's time.
On the advice of JB Rader.
we're cutting loose
all the teams.
What does that mean.
you've dropped all the teams?
We've cut everybody loose.
We're a liability to everybody.
Given with the interaction
with law enforcement and all
the teams we got out there
drawing attention to us.
we're exercising
extra precautions this year.
We're doing our due diligence
on security.
[Mark]
That's an old. burner phone.
[Digger] You call
if you need anything.
The first number that's in
the saved phone number.
that's the phone
I've got right now.
Feel free to use
any of our recipes.
Make yuns of all the money
you can. but be safe doing it.
I mean. we want to run liquor.
You know all these
stills are in here.
Pick what you need.
take what you want.
[Amanda] So it's not as bad
as it could have been.
We're not completely cut off.
We still get to use all
the equipment we've had access
to in the previous years.
And thankfully. they've kept
one lifeline to me and Kelly.
and I really. really
appreciate that.
The holy grail of moonshine.
Why don't we just take one
right now. and I'm gonna have
the key. and if we need some
more stuff. we can come back at
any time and get what we want?
- I'd keep my head low.
Hey. yuns have at it
as you see fit.
I recommend you guys setting up
as far away as you can
practically. you know.
maybe even over in
western North Carolina
somewhere.
Out of state would be
a smart place to go.
[Digger] It's y'all's bus.
You take it up the route
you want to go.
They're out on their own.
and we wish them the best.
But we've come
to terms with it.
We're gonna mash
in to total liquor.
We're gonna be down
to Mark and Digger.
[music plays]
Man. it's a good feeling
to know we got
these grains already.
So. all we got to do is
just get some cherries.
and then [bleep].
we're ready to roll.
It's the beginning
of the season.
Already got a tall order. we got
some great Carolina rye.
Now. we need to
get some cherries.
He wants a large order
of cherry whiskey.
We're about to make
some dollars. man.
Yes. sir.
We're going to the farmer's
market. where I've gone a bunch
of times. and I've got
more fruit than you can
shake a stick at. and I'm ready
to get some cherries
and go make
some money.
[Big Chuk] Oh. yeah. this is
a big-old operation.
[Josh] I love this place.
- How's it going. bud?
- [man] Good. how are you?
Yeah. we're great. man.
- Hey. we need some cherries.
- A little too early.
- Cherries.
- I knew it was a little early.
but the farmer's market's
always got what I need.
Well. there's a guy down below
down here that has that
shipped in.
He might have some.
OK. great.
Thank you very much.
I've been coming up here
friggin' 14 or 15 years.
and they've always had
exactly what I wanted.
This time. they don't have
what I need.
He says we're four or five
weeks too early that if there
are any. they're down below
at the bottom.
- How you doing. buddy?
- Doing well.
- How you doing?
- I'm doing pretty good.
I'm looking for some cherries.
We're going for a
world record on
the world's largest cherry pie.
- Well. you're about
a month too early.
- I know it. man.
but I know you guys
probably can have some.
I'm sorry.
but there's a warehouse
full of options.
Happy to go let
you take a look.
Raspberries. maybe
blackberries.
Find something
that works for you.
OK.
All right.
What are the odds of me getting
an order for some cherry rye
and it being. like. within
five weeks of not having
any [bleep] cherries?
That makes no sense.
- [Josh] Hey. hey.
- [man] Hey. whatcha doing?
- [Josh] How you doing. man?
- [man] Good. how about yourself?
The fella outside said to
come out here that y'all had
all kind of stuff out here.
What I really need is
some cherries. man.
We got some
blackberries. raspberries.
- Yeah.
- What are they looking like?
- [Man] You want to see them?
- Yeah.
They got raspberries.
strawberries.
blackberries. but they don't
have any doggone cherries.
Mmm.
Sweet. too.
- Oh. man. those are sweet.
- Mmm.
Raspberries.
If I had to pick between the
two. it'd be the blackberry.
Sounds like you got
a choice to make.
Well. it's not exactly what
we're supposed to be doing.
- Mm-hmm.
- [Josh] Um.
let's either take
the blackberries or leave it.
It's just my luck.
Got a kick-start on the season.
got a big order fulfilled.
Just when I think I'm fixing to
kill it and everything's going
great and I'm about to hit
a home run. I usually get hit
in the head like
I'm taking a home run.
But I'm not gonna
let that stop me.
Right now. we can't
make a cherry pie.
We're just gonna have to
make a blackberry pie.
I like blackberry pie.
I know my customers ask for
cherry rye. and it may be risky
to make some blackberry rye.
but there's no cherries.
We'll take out half a pallet of
blackberries right there.
I'm gonna go around
and get the truck.
- OK. we'll do it.
- Appreciate it.
We made a damn
executive decision.
I guarantee that he's gonna
want to buy some more
blackberry rye when it's over.
Thank you. Mr. Allen.
[music plays]
[Big Chuk vocalizing]
- [Big Chuk] Back in the hills.
- [Josh] We in a good place. man.
This is a good still site.
We got great water here.
We got great ingredients.
As long as we can stay
out of jail. we'll make money.
[Big Chuk] Money. money. money.
This fella wants
some cherry rye.
We didn't get cherries.
but we damn for sure got
some really. really.
really good blackberries.
I want to get this baby
fired up as quick as we can.
[Big Chuk] Yeah.
[Josh] And I got to
make this deal.
Right now. we're just gonna
have to take a chance
because I really don't want to
lose the customer.
[music plays]
[whoosh]
Looky there.
- [Josh] Son. would
you look at that.
- Oh. I tell you.
I would almost rather eat them.
- [Josh] Are these not great?
- [Big Chuk] They are.
[Josh] God dang.
I tell you what.
I know cherries are good.
but these are just as good.
Sweet. sweet. sweet.
[Josh] Let's get mashed in.
Oh. yeah. she ready.
We normally just mash right
into the sub pot. but rye is
notorious for scorching.
It's gonna stick to the bottom
and ruin your whole run.
So what we're gonna do.
we're gonna mash in.
in the tote. be done with it.
I'm a little unprepared.
- Mm-hmm.
- Normally. I'd have a piece of
pipe in there with
a little ball valve on it.
and I can cut it
off and on.
I forgot I needed
that ball valve.
So we're doing it
the old-fashioned way.
- The old traditional way.
- [Josh] Yep.
[groans]
So I had to go
the old-school way.
We had to go to dumping
a five-gallon bucket
down in a still...
Oh [bleep]. fire truck.
...burning our knuckles.
burning our arms.
- Shoo.
- [groans]
Man. you wanna talk
about tough.
Them old fellas.
they earned it.
A little corn.
[Big Chuk] Putting this corn in
the pot at near boiling temps.
you're just breaking down
all those starches in it.
you know. and that's gonna
turn into sugar.
which is food for
the yeast to make the alcohol.
[Josh]
Rye's known for being mean.
It's got such a bite to it.
So we're adding a little bit of
corn to it just to kind of
break it up some.
- [Big Chuk] Rye. baby. rye.
- All right. here we go.
Come here. hoe.
[Josh. singing]
Rye whiskey. rye whiskey.
Lord. don't let me down.
[Big Chuk] Yeah.
I bet he was a character.
wasn't he?
[Josh] Man. old Tim Tom
was a character.
You have no idea.
[Big Chuk] Man. I'd have
loved to have met him.
We don't hold a candle to him.
I'm telling you right now.
I guarantee you.
he's rocking it out in Heaven.
you know what I mean?
Running liquor. boy.
Man. this Carolina rye has
a certain aroma on it that's
different than any other rye.
so I can tell why
it's so special.
I'm gonna dump
some berries in there.
[Big Chuk]
You know. when you got unique
grains and unique flavors.
and you're able to do
these different combinations.
out here in the woods
like this.
this is how you
take over the market.
- [Josh] The magic dust.
- [Big Chuk] Nice.
- [shatters]
- Oh. mm.
Hey. you know that thing
they do with the boat where
they break the bottle of
champagne or wine over the back
of the boat?
- Uh. christen it.
We just christened our season.
And one's gonna try to rain
on us. now the sun's back out.
[Big Chuk] Hey. shining down
on us right now.
- [singing] Ah.
- Yeah. let's get it covered up
and get out of here.
[Mark] JB. he knows how foolish
and careless we've got.
Well. that was what
we've been. just damn ignorant.
We didn't have any business
getting so big so fast.
We don't look to
get rich no more.
We just look to survive.
stay out of jail.
feed our families.
and have a little bit of fun
while we're doing it.
We'll check out
the old site here.
This site's never
been compromised.
We're not gonna
flee Cocke County.
Cocke County's our home.
This is where
our moonshine heritage is.
A lot of canopies
filled in here.
You know. we got
good overhead coverage.
We've learned our lesson.
We're gonna use
a secure still site.
We're gonna only sell to
our old. established customers.
And we're gonna keep
a very low profile.
I say we at least get in here
and get our mash built.
Let's go do it.
You know. me and Digger.
we're going back to our basics.
not only just in me and him
doing it.
We're going back to basics
all the way around.
We're going back to the simple
corn recipe liquors
that we've had.
Well. here's where
the rubber meets the road.
[music plays]
- [Digger] You know what?
- [Mark] What?
I say. by God. let's lay
the ears back to it.
Let's fill this damn place up
with stills again.
By God. and we'll bring
our damn gats with us.
and we'll just
shoot our way out.
- Let's don't and say we did.
- OK.
We're just gonna boil some
pots of water enough to steep
the corn. and we're actually
just gonna melt the sugar
into the pots of water.
That's good. ain't it?
[Digger] Yeah. we can go ahead
dump that corn in it.
In Appalachia. here where
we live. the old standby.
the go-to. is just corn liquor.
We'll just dump that sugar
water right on top of that
and steep that corn.
For hundreds and hundreds
of years. that's all there was.
You know. that was good enough
for everybody back then.
and hell. that's good enough
for me now.
That smells like good.
sweet cornbread. Puss.
[Digger] That's what
we're looking for.
[Mark] Let's grind that
bucket of white corn.
We like a heavy-grit grain.
The more you get it ground.
the more you expose your
starches and your carbohydrates
to the fermentation process.
Kind of feels good. just me
and you doing it again.
don't it?
- Yeah.
Corn liquor. what Digger
and myself cut our teeth on.
We're going back
to the old days.
[Digger] We're ready to rock.
Here we go.
[Mark] Just seems like there's
something different
about this time.
[music plays]
- [Tim] Put. "Tickle was here."
- [Tickle] Don't do that.
Don't do that.
What are you doing?
Well. look. look.
My dad always told me that
if you get caught making
moonshine. look. they're going
to put it on the front page
of the newspaper.
This is mocking.
Now they're gonna know
whose still it was
and who Tickle is.
But I done pulled more time
than you. Tim.
I'm trying to give
them a lead.
They've been chasing you.
I'm going the other way.
You send them chasing me.
and I'm going to tell them
where you're at.
- OK. I'll put. "Sorry."
- [indistinct].
- Get that thing away from him.
Boy. I can tell you he ain't
been in the woods in a while.
We about right on temp.
Oh. yeah. that's bath water.
The yeast is
the magic potion here.
It's the magic dust.
we like to call it.
It's what eats up the sugars
and turns them into alcohol.
Damn. Puss. I can't believe
we're here making
a round of liquor.
I don't want to ever hear us
say that we're quitting
anymore. do you?
We had good intentions
of quitting.
let's put it that way.
Of course. the road to hell is
paved with them.
Let's cover this
son-of-a-gun up.
That's what I was gonna
say. let's tarp that up.
Won't lose no more heat.
Oh. yeah. that's perfect.
But we've made the decision.
and as far as I'm concerned.
Mark and Digger are back
in the moonshine business.
I guess we're here to stay.
[music plays]
Tell you what. this site's gonna
look a whole lot better
with two pots in it.
ain't it?
We get this one set up now.
get it mashed in. we'll bring
another tomorrow.
- Whole lot of wildlife. though.
It sort of concerns me with
hunting season coming up.
Well. that's the only thing
we done saw.
That preacher man.
You know. the first
still's already set up.
already mashed in.
probably already working.
We're gonna set
the second still up. same deal.
All right. let's see
what we got going on.
- All right.
- We're gonna put it right here.
- [Tickle] Pot's empty.
- [Tim] [indistinct].
- [Tickle] Your pot is empty.
- The drain is laying up here.
- Where's the plug?
- It's up.
It went on the ground.
The pressure didn't
blow it out?
It's like somebody
just took it out.
- What the hell is this?
- What is what?
- Holes.
- [Tickle] Be dogged if it ain't.
- [Henry] Yeah.
- [Tickle] Like somebody
done shot it.
Look at this hole. man.
It's like 22 bullet holes.
It's one thing that the plug
was pulled out. but with holes
being shot in this thing.
somebody's actually trying to
ruin this still where we
cannot use it again.
That's some more
down there. man.
- [Tickle] What does that say?
- [Tim] Somebody wrote
something on it.
- [Henry] What is that?
- [Tickle] P-R-V.
P-R-V 23.
[Tickle] I know what this is.
I don't come from
a line of moonshiners.
I come from a line of
Baptist preachers.
That's a Bible verse.
PRV. that's Proverbs.
Chapter 23.
verses 31 through 32.
- [Henry] What's it mean?
- Let me look it up.
Proverbs 23. 31 and 32.
"Look not thou upon the wine
when it is red. when it giveth
"his color in the cup. when it
moveth itself aright.
"At the last. it biteth like
a serpent and stingeth
like an adder."
What does that mean.
pretty strong?
That means
only drink it
when it's fresh-squeezed.
Don't drink it after
it's been fermented.
It's all about.
you know. alcohol.
Don't drink alcohol.
You know. it's forbidden
and all of this.
I'm like. "Oh. boy. now
we really got trouble now."
Now. who did we see right
after we mashed this in that
might be writing Bible verses
on the pot?
- We saw the preacher.
- We sure did see the preacher.
On the road.
He come all the way down here.
I mean. he did talk to you
a little stern.
Told you real quick.
he didn't like liquor.
We saw him down here hunting.
He had a shotgun.
Now. is he just sending us
a message. or did he send
a message to the police. too?
I don't know. but I think
right now we shouldn't be
taking no chances.
- We better grab what we can
right quick and get
the hell out of here.
- [Tickle] Let's face it.
We don't know if
the person that did this
called the police.
- Well. get the pump. then.
This still site right here
is ruined. y'all.
I'm thinking this is not
a good start for
my illegal world here.
You know. I left this
a long time ago.
Went legal.
Now I come back.
it's like the first day
went bad.
And I'm thinking. is someone
gonna arrest us. somebody gonna
shoot us. or what's
gonna happen?
[suspenseful music plays]
[suspenseful chord strike]
[Mark] All right. Puss.
On this season
of "Moonshiners"--
We don't want you pushing that
[bleep] around here. man.
I mean. I've never smuggled
no moonshine across the border.
Get on out of here.
Going across to kind of
another country.
this is something else.
Up here's the first island.
See what y'all think.
All right.
We done got worried that maybe
we're being tracked.
Just put them on the beach.
This right here is going to be
the perfect place for us to
start hiding our shine.
Other shiners just moved in.
Somebody else tried to
choke us out of business.
We can't continue on
doing business like this.
We're gonna have to do
something different.
I'm just gonna have to get
creative and make something
that they've never seen before.
- Chuk. you hear that?
- [Big Chuk] Four-wheelers.
- [Josh] Hey. hey.
We got to get
the hell out of here.
Here he comes. oh.
We've got a 100-gallon order.
They're gone.
Sure enough. the liquor
was gone.
This can really get
pretty damn ugly
if y'all don't get the hell out
of here.
[man] Y'all come up here.
I'm trying to make a living.
We know where
that liquor's coming from.
It's stolen.
This [bleep] is over.
Got us?
Kelly. this is scary.
- [Kelly] We're standing.
- [Amanda] Oh. God.
I don't know what happened.
All I know I can't turn
this [bleep].
I'm underwater.
- Ah. Tickle.
- [Tickle] Yeah.
[indistinct talking]
[Mark] Nobody steal from us.
They stole our liquor.
I'm going to put them out here
for good. and I don't want them
back in this country.
- [boom]